Carnage in Gaza the journalism Israel is
trying to suppress the Palestinian
reporters risking everything to get the
story out Shadow Banning and AG gating
social media companies tying themselves
up in knots over content coming out of
Gaza and silencing Palestinian voices is
nothing new for Israel will take you
back 50 years to a his historical case
in
point hello I'm Richard gizbert and
you're at the listening post where we
don't cover the news we cover the way
the news is covered after 3 weeks of
punishing Israeli bombardment of Gaza
Palestinians there remain sealed off
from the outside world Israel is still
refusing to allow International
journalists or investigators in ask
yourself why the situation has made news
outlets and audiences is entirely
reliant on local journalists
Palestinians in Gaza to find out what is
going on reporters there face immense
challenges and dangers with fuel and
electricity cut off charging phones and
equipment and transmitting material gets
harder by the day the reports that do
make it out provide raw unfiltered views
into the Carnage produced by the bombing
of the most densely populated place on
Earth since hamas's horrific attack on
Israel on October 7th Palestinian
journalists have been killed at a rate
of roughly one per day among the
survivors Al jaera arabic's bureau chief
in Gaza much of his immediate family was
killed in yet another Israeli attack in
a one-sided War a military mismatch that
has killed more than 7,000 Palestinians
at least 3,000 of them
children for Arabic speakers watching
the news of isra 's assault on Gaza one
face has been synonymous with the
coverage Al jazer arabic's bureau chief
there
[Music]
we this past Wednesday D was reporting
live when he got the call the one every
Palestinian in Gaza
dreads an Israeli air strike had wiped
out his immediate family
his wife son daughter and
Grandson they had been Sheltering in the
nerat refugee camp in central gossa an
area Israel had designated as safe for
Palestinian journalists it was a
crushing reminder as if they needed one
that there is no Safe Haven left in
Gossip having covered one Massacre after
another they have come to fear the
possibility the probability that they
will find people they know those closest
to them buried in the
rub it's so scary and so terrifying to
be a journalist because you're not just
reporting on the suffering of the people
you're also reporting the killing of
your friends and your family
members we are actually seeing
journalists performing other duties
other than journalism heading to the
place that get
stried and just people gave me these two
babies one of the the most heartbreaking
videos is
of carrying two
[Music]
children and he's trying to do
everything at once he's trying to be the
paramedic he's trying to be the human to
comfort the
children he's also trying to be the
journalist to report on the story it's
really covering death and destru ruction
around the clock now where um the entire
territory is being deliberately deprived
of food of water of medication of
electricity I mean the only thing the
Israelis haven't succeeded in cutting
off to the Gaza Strip is the oxygen
supply so I really couldn't overstate
the challenges whether at the personal
or the professional or the psychological
level Palestinian journalists are
providing a raw and ugly view of the
Carnage in Gaza and they are finding
audiences Motas Aiza reports in both
English and Arabic on the day before the
October 7th attacks he had 25,000
followers now he's at more than 9
million and I'll will show you the
massive destruction that happened to the
Zahara City in the middle of the STP
more than 14 idental Tower got destroyed
by the Israeli air strikes Ali Jad Allah
is a photojournalist whose work has
appeared in many International media
Outlets they and many others are
chronicling the destruction the likes of
which Gaza has never seen before in 2022
a total of 67 journalists and media
workers were killed around the world in
Gaza they are being killed at a rate of
roughly one per day at least two
in less than 3 weeks it is a
journalistic killing
Feld among the latest to be buried rosi
saraj co-founder of a company called I
media which works with international
news outlets like Al jazer some of the
organizations that relied on s's work
have paid tribute to him among them
Radio France International and Amnesty
International which said he was murdered
by Israeli bombs my uh boss rushi saraj
before he was killed one of the last
posts he posted was I'm sorry I'm unable
to report much because we don't have
electricity or Internet so Israel what
they're trying to do is completely cut
Gaza off from the whole
world if it is a war against Hamas as
they claim why are you targeting
journalists why are you imposing a media
blackout on journalists who are sharing
what's happening on the ground RI has
always had um a passion for film making
and photograph
and one of his dreams was to show the
world what Gaza is like you know the
love stories he didn't want to focus on
destruction on you know the loss of life
he really wanted to show the world that
Gaza is full of hope it's full of life
but he was compelled to become a
journalist because of the horrible
atrocities that Gaza was experiencing
year after another you know we're
following a variety of accounts um Human
Rights Watch to do our reporting
obviously we rely on on the ground
information so the journalists that are
reporting on Gaza are doing incredibly
vital work The Limited snapshots we're
able to get which are so critical for
human rights advocates for governments
for historians for so many others to
understand in real time what's taking
place so the limited accounts the
dispatches that we get um out of Gaza
are critical in terms of furthering our
understanding of what the civilian
population is facing
there more than 7,000 Palestinians in
Gaza have been killed at least 3,000 of
them children the casualty figures are
updated daily by the dwindling number of
medical professionals and journalists on
the ground Israel will not allow
International reporters or investigators
in which has given its official space to
cast doubt on the death T are you saying
that they're lying about the numbers are
you saying that those numbers are wrong
we know we know that they learned about
the numbers allegations that were echoed
this week by the president of the United
States I have no confidence in the
number that the Palestinians are using
the fact of the matter is that doctors
in Gaza have developed an expertise in
how to identify and account for the dead
a methodology born of necessity when we
talk about Gaza Health authorities we're
talking about Hamas maligning the work
of those on the inside is part of a
concerted Israeli effort that continues
to dehumanize Palestinians even after
they have been bu
Human Rights Watch has been working in
the occupied Palestine territory for
more than three decades we've covered
multiple rounds of escalations in the
Gaza Strip and when we've done our own
independent investigations of individual
strikes and verified the number of
fatalities they have been generally
consistent with the figures of gaza's
Ministry of Health with no major
deviations the major reason is
methodological uh the Gaza Ministry of
Health has access to data from hospitals
and from mors that isn't available to
Simply anybody else I would further note
that not only does Human Rights Watch
but the UN as well as the US state
department in their annual human rights
reports all use the figures from gaza's
Ministry of Health and and the Gaza
Ministry of Health has also published
the full list um as of October 26th of
those killed their names their ages and
other identifying um
information Beyond dismissing the death
toll in Gaza one key focus of Israeli
lead ERS and their PR machine Remains
the global media the journalists Israel
has locked out it is a strategy that
Israel admits to Without Shame if the
international media is objective it
serves
Hamas if it just shows both sides it
serves Hamas according to politicians
like y lapid this story is All About
Hamas and October 7th the brutality of
those attacks on Israeli civilians and
Leed made his name working in the
Israeli media he understands the
importance of journalistic access at a
time like this in a different world
every news report about this war by any
foreign news agency would start by
emphasizing uh that we are unable uh to
enter the Gaza Strip and to report from
the scene of the crime because the
Israeli military has banned us from
entering then any statement issued by
the Israeli military would have to be
prefaced by saying you know this
organization has a proven and
demonstrated history of knowingly
providing the media with falsehoods and
why would that be strange there is no
conflict in which the parties don't lie
it's called propaganda for a reason the
reason that Israel is preventing access
is completely obvious they they don't
have something to hide they've very much
uh to
hide which leaves the job of documenting
this war in the hands of Gins
journalists who are finding ways to make
an impact this little boy was pulled out
alive his rescuer rushes to his
mother but before she can Embrace her
boy she passes out in a shock Yousef
hamash a pal inian filmmaker who also
works with refugees has teamed up with
Channel 4 a British broadcaster to
produce invaluable reports like this one
taking viewers to the humanitarian heart
of this story Israeli
DRS we call the sounds they make zanana
a buzzing bee a constant
hum they never leave
us we are running out of places to hide
it is the kind of firsthand accounting
of the impact of Israeli bombs and
missiles the Netanyahu government does
not want the world to see and there is
evidence the Biden Administration also
finds such journalism problematic the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
reported to have asked Qatari leaders to
quote turn down the volume on alzer's
coverage because it is full of
anti-israel incitement it is not clear
what blinkin was referring to spefic
specifically not
that has taken any notice of that the
day after the Israelis annihilated his
family he was back on Al jazer Arabic
doing his job come what
[Music]
may social media is another front in
this war and content moderation policies
at some major platforms have people
asking questions Flo Phillips is here
with more Richard since the start of
this war we've seen accounts being
closed down others shadowbanned as well
as stringent age restrictions on who can
watch certain videos this past Wednesday
meta raised eyebrows for closing the
account of ion Palestine which has more
than six million Instagram followers the
account going dark is being seen as a
prime example of anti-palestinian
censorship but meta insists it disabled
the account because of security concerns
here at Al jazer our digital team has
been monitoring multiple platforms it's
seeing a big jump in the number of
warnings attached to footage showing
bomb Devastation or traumatized gazin
Tik Tok has been doing a lot of that and
when asked why it cited its standard
regulations on gory content however
similar content related to Russia's war
against Ukraine hasn't had this
treatment YouTube has been ated as well
ageg gating News videos coming out of
Gaza which means users have to sign in
and verify their ages before they can
watch ageg gating has a purpose
shielding young people from unsuitable
content but again it appears to be
applied selectively we didn't see this
with News videos coming out of Ukraine
advertisers are playing a role in this
too a lot of news content from Gaza has
been demonetized ads are removed since
corporations don't like selling their
products alongside images of war the
Israeli government has had no such
issues it's pushing its ads online many
of which feature images and text they're
getting a lot of Play on YouTube
sometimes they're even being run before
videos aimed at
[Music]
kids that begs the question where's the
age gating there thanks Flo to the story
of another Palestinian voice now
silenced by an Israeli bomb more than 50
years ago rassan canaani was a writer
who was best remembered for his books
like men in the Sun that narrated the
experience of Palestinian dispossession
and displacement but canaani was first
and foremost a journalist exiled living
the life of a refugee in Lebanon Beirut
in the 1960s was a magnet for young
reporters and revolutionaries migrants
and misfits Lebanon was also playing
host to the Palestinian leadership in
Exile at the time it was in Beirut that
canaani produced alhad a groundbreaking
Palestinian magazine that has been
somewhat Lost In The Mists of time three
years ago the listening posts Tarak NAFA
traveled to Beirut to tell the story of
canaani the piece is just as relevant
today as it was when we aired it back
then there are some voices rare ones
that can take a moment in time and give
it meaning voices of clarity that to
themselves not easily
defined rasan canaani a writer artist
journalist playright and Politico was
one of those people as surely as the
Middle East turmoil keeps away the
tourist a video from 1970 a news report
captures canaani in the city where he
made his name in Beirut a new business
has developed Revolution Palestinian
Revolution he's interviewed by Richard
Carlton for Australia's ABC News the
bayout leader of the popular front is
gasan kopani he was born in Palestine
but fled in 1948 as he puts it from
Zionist Terror as the English-speaking
spokesman of the popular front for the
liberation of Palestine the
pfp canaani made good TV but it was by
no means an easy
interview it does seem that the war the
Civil War has been quite fruitless it's
not a civil war it's a people defending
theirself against a fascist government
which you are it's a moment of great
confidence of clarity of vision of
conviction and the way rasan kafani
speaks in that clip shows all of this
this energy that was the hope of the
Palestinian Revolution or the conflict
not a conflict it's a Liberation
movement fighting for
justice well whatever it might be best
called not whatever canani picks up on a
very important word which for me
resonated the strongest and this is the
word whatever this is exactly where the
problem start this is a people who is
discriminated is fighting for his rights
this is a story and this is the
narrative that Palestinians
unfortunately have not been able to
relay to the world the Palestinian
narrative as narrated by
Palestinians is not something that the
world wants to hear why not just talk
talk to whom talk to the Israeli leaders
that's kind of conversation between the
sword and the neck you
mean said it in simple and clear
language how are we supposed to have
dialogue you're coming to slaughter me
put aside the sword so we can have a
conversation they're better that way
than dead though maybe to you but to us
it's not to us to liberate our country
to have dignity to have respect to have
our mere human rights is something as
essential as life itself
in the Arab imagination canaani is
remembered for his storytelling which
explored the Palestinian experience
statelessness separation and
Exile in the west he was the public face
of the leftist pflp seen as one of the
more radical Palestinian
factions canaani was not involved in the
armed wing of the pflp or in the
planning of high-profile airplane
hijackings that the group became
synonymous with but he was an advocate
of armed struggle and understood its
mediatic
value if it went quiet he wrote no TV
network would willingly give any
Palestinian a minute of coverage to
express
themselves above all though canaani was
a journalist an accomplished
one Rani was multifaceted multi-talented
human being he was very significant in
the Kuwaiti and Lebanese press in their
Heyday we're talking about the 1950s and
60s keni was a central figure I mean he
was associated with the founding of many
magazines and newspapers throughout the
region beut in the 1960s and' 70s was an
extremely vibrant City it was a truly
Arab City and the Palestinian Revolution
was kind of The Last Hope for people and
so that's why Arabs from all over went
to um Beirut to be part of that that
last front for Revolution and creativity
and activity and literature and
journalism after the defeat of Arab
regimes in the war of
1967 and the disillusionment that came
with it Palestinians took matters into
their own
hands a national struggle for Liberation
took
form and for kenani it marked a shift in
thinking to the Revolutionary politics
of the
pflp in 1969 he was made editor-in chief
of alhed the group's newly formed Weekly
Magazine alhed was revolutionary in
spirit and substance it combined the
pp's political messaging with analysis
humor art and calligraphy in a Chronicle
of the Palestinian resistance that
linked it to anti-colonial struggles in
Africa Asia and Latin
America he made left-wing media
accessible well beyond the narrow
confines of the already converted he
went after arguments by fellow Arab
journalists as much as he went after
arguments by Western journalists because
article where an unusual combination of
satire sharp witticism as well as uh
information I mean can you imagine
Soviet communist literature using humor
and irony at that time there was none of
that and Arab Communists were even more
d uh more humorless than the Soviet
Union so you can imagine when comes with
this new form of media it was entirely
novel Al had an open door policy that
made it a hub of cultural and artistic
exchange it was there that kenery and
his associates produced some of the most
iconic posters of the Palestinian
Revolution it was was a progressive
Magazine with an Engaged International
readership but it was the official party
organ some would say the mouthpiece of
the
pflp kill me
mouthpiece I don't like the term
mouthpiece it's not true neither was it
propaganda we were not spreading
propaganda we were trying to get the
truth to the people that was the slogan
of aled it read the truth is always
revolutionary which is what lenon wrote
these truths were the refugee camps or
the truth of the Palestinian situation
alhf was open to accept all kinds of new
ideas and for this reason I think the
importance of literature and journalism
and culture from that era is that it was
the founding
[Music]
culture canaani left a distinctive
imprint on the Arab cultural and media
space there is his pioneering fictional
writing and then there is this huge body
of journalistic work and when you look
at the range of his output you get the
sense perhaps that he knew his time was
limited that he had a Target on his
back on the 8th of July
1972 canaani and his niece were killed
in a car bomb outside his home he was
36 it was among the first in a series of
Israeli assassinations targeting
Palestinian leaders and cultural figures
in its hitory of canery lebanon's Daily
Star said he was a Commando who never
fired a gun whose weapon was a ballpoint
pen and his Arena newspaper
Pages Israel decided to go after all
facets of the Palestinian national
movement whether they were writers
journalists combatants they made no
distinction whatsoever they wanted to
extinguish the flame of the Palestinian
national movement in all its forms
canani has gone through two lives there
was the life that he actually lived on
this planet and there was a second life
that he has been living after his death
especially in the last 20 years his
iconic image is almost everywhere
there's so many Facebook pages dedicated
to him Instagram
Pages resistance for him was something
that was not necessarily just in action
the heart of resistance could be in the
written word and this voice of Hope and
aspiration and Clarity and conviction we
don't have anymore and that's why this
resonates so strongly with us
today rasan canaani a Palestinian
journalist who paid for his refusal to
be intimidated into Silence with his
life over the past three weeks dozens
more Palestinian reporters and
photographers determined to document
what is occurring in Gaza have paid that
same price here at the listening post we
will continue to tell their stories as
well as the larger story in Gaza the one
the Israeli authorities have tried to
keep the world from hearing and
seeing